---
layout: single
title: "Poetry 0.6.0 is out"
date: 2018-03-16 09:12:35
categories: [releases]
tags: ["0.x"]

aliases:
  - poetry-0-6-0-is-out.html
---

This version brings some improvements and a bunch of bugfixes.

## New Features

### Virtualenv autogeneration

Now, whenever you install packages, Poetry, if not already inside a virtualenv,
will create a virtualenv automatically, or use a previously create one, to always
work isolated from the rest of your system.

<aside class="warning"><p>
Since Poetry is 3.6+ only, it will create virtualenvs
using the standard library `venv` module.</p>

<p>So, if you want to work with a previous Python version in your
project, you will need to create your own virtualenvs using, for instance,
<a href="https://github.com/berdario/pew">pew</a>.
</p></aside>

### New `run` command

Related to the new virtualenv autogeneration, the `run` command executes the given
command inside the project's virtualenv.

### Markdown file support

Poetry now support using Markdown files as README files.

### `pyproject.toml` file validation

The `pyproject.toml` file's structure will now be automatically validated.

### New `debug:resolve` command

The `debug:resolve` command is the first of debug command which will help
debugging issues found in Poetry. This one in particular has been added to
have more insight when errors are encountered while resolving dependencies

## Fixes

- Fixed color displayed in `show` command for semver-compatible updates.
- Fixed Python requirements in publishing metadata.
- Fixed `update` command reinstalling every dependency.
