---
layout: single
title: "Poetry 0.7.0 is out"
date: 2018-04-04 09:12:35
categories: [releases]
tags: ["0.x"]

aliases:
  - poetry-0-7-0-is-out.html
---

This version brings some improvements and a bunch of bugfixes.

## New Features

### Support for Python 3.4+

Previously, Poetry supported Python 3.6+ but after some consideration
it was decided that it would support all Python 3 versions currently by the
Python core team (see https://devguide.python.org/#status-of-python-branches).

So now, Poetry supports Python 3.4+.

### New standalone installer

Poetry now provides a custom installer that will install `poetry` isolated
from the rest of your system by vendorizing its dependencies. This is the
recommended way of installing `poetry`.

```bash
curl -sSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/sdispater/poetry/master/get-poetry.py | python
```

Alternatively, you can download the `get-poetry.py` file and execute it separately.

If you want to install prerelease versions, you can do so by passing `--preview` to `get-poetry.py`:

```bash
python get-poetry.py --preview
```

Similarly, if you want to install a specific version, you can use `--version`:

```bash
python get-poetry.py --version 0.7.0
```

<aside class="note">
<p>Using <code>pip</code> to install <code>poetry</code> is also possible.</p>
<div class="highlight">
<pre class=" language-bash">
<code class=" language-bash" data-lang="bash">pip install --user poetry</code>
</pre>
</div>
<p>Be aware, however, that it will also install poetry's dependencies
which might cause conflicts.</p>
</aside>

### New `version` command

The `version` has been added which allows you to bump automatically
the version of the project and write the new version back to `pyproject.toml`

The new version should ideally be a valid semver string or a valid bump rule:
`patch`, `minor`, `major`, `prepatch`, `preminor`, `premajor`, `prerelease`.

### New `script` command

The `script` command executes one of the scripts defined in `pyproject.toml`.

So, if you have a script defined like this:

```toml
[tool.poetry.scripts]
my-script = "my_module:main"
```

You can execute it like so:

```bash
poetry script my-script
```

### Support for trove classifiers

The `tool.poetry` section of the `pyproject.toml` file now accepts
a `classifiers` property which allows you to specify trove classifiers.

```toml
classifiers = [
    "Topic :: Software Development :: Build Tools",
    "Topic :: Software Development :: Libraries :: Python Modules"
]
```

Note that Python classifiers are still automatically added for you and are
determined by your `python` requirement.

The `license` property will also set the License classifer automatically.

## Changes

- Improved dependency resolution to avoid unnecessary operations.
- Improved dependency resolution speed.
- Improved CLI reactivity by deferring imports.

## Fixes

- Fixed handling of markers with the `in` operator.
- Fixed `update` not properly adding new packages to the lock file.
- Fixed solver adding uninstall operations for non-installed packages.
- Fixed `new` command creating invalid `pyproject.toml` files.
