---
layout: single
title: "Poetry 0.12.0 is out"
date: 2018-10-17 10:12:35
categories: [releases]
tags: ["0.x"]

aliases:
  - poetry-0-12-0-is-out.html
---

This new version brings a brand new official installer,
dependency resolver improvements, virtualenv management and detection improvements
and many more small improvements and bug fixes.

<aside class="note">
<p>There are some breaking changes in this release,
especially in the way Poetry resolves dependencies, so before upgrading you should read the following release notes</p>
</aside>

## New features

### Brand new installer

A lot of issues on the official [issue tracker](https://github.com/python-poetry/poetry/issues) were related to
the installation of Poetry: bugs, permission errors and overall confusion about the way Poetry should be installed.

As of this release, the installer will install Poetry in an isolated way in the home directory of the current user.

<aside class="note">
<p>You only need to install Poetry once. It will automatically pick up the current
Python version and use it to <a href="/docs/basic-usage/#poetry-and-virtualenvs" title="Poetry and virtualenvs">create virtualenvs</a> accordingly.</p>
<p>This works particularly well with a tool like <a href="https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv">pyenv</a> which allows to
easily switch between Python versions.</p>
</aside>

The installer installs the `poetry` tool to Poetry's `bin` directory.
On Unix it is located at `$HOME/.poetry/bin` and on Windows at `%USERPROFILE%\.poetry\bin`.

This directory will be in your `$PATH` environment variable,
which means you can run them from the shell without further configuration.
Open a new shell and type the following:

```bash
poetry --version
```

If you see something like `Poetry 0.12.0` then you are ready to use Poetry.
If you decide Poetry isn't your thing, you can completely remove it from your system
by running the installer again with the `--uninstall` option.

You can still install Poetry by alternative ways if you want, see the [documentation](/docs/#installation) for more information.

<aside class="note">
<p>It is not possible to use the <code>self:update</code> command to upgrade Poetry from <code>0.11.5</code> to <code>0.12</code>.
Use the installer to upgrade.</p>
</aside>

### Dependency resolution improvements

The dependency resolver has been improved and fixed. However, these necessary changes came
at the cost of backward compatibility.

Basically, a package would be accepted even if its Python requirement was not compatible
with the root package requirement.

Let's take an example: `ipython`. From version `6.0` and onwards it's only compatible
with Python >=3.3, so if your project depends on Python `~2.7 || ^3.6`, `ipython>=6.0` should
not be selected for locking but due to a bug in the previous versions it would, causing errors
later on in the installation process.

Now, the proper `ipython (5.8.0)` version will be selected.

But this required a change in the behavior of the resolver which can cause issues temporarily
until you update your `pyproject.toml` file to take into account these changes.

The biggest of these changes is that a wildcard dependency on `python` will now be interpreted as `~2.7 || ^3.4` which
match the currently maintained Python versions. If that is not what you want, change the `python` dependency constraint
to what matches what you actually want.

<aside class="note">
<p>Note that this is only to help the resolver and avoid conflict detection errors.
This does not affect the packaging process where a wildcard Python dependency
will still be respected.</p>
</aside>

Another important change is the conflict detection on conditional dependencies. Let's take an example:

- The root project is compatible with `Python ^3.5`.
- The root project depends on `ccxt`.
- The latest versions of `ccxt` depends on `aiohttp >=3.0.1` for `Python >=3.5.2`.
- However, every version of `aiohttp >=3.0.1` requires `Python >=3.5.3`.
- This is a conflict because this would leave an uncertainty for `Python 3.5.2` if we were to choose any version of `aiohttp >=3.0.1`

In previous versions, this would fail but now the resolver sees something is wrong and will try to find
a version that satisfies everything (after a lot of conflict resolution and a long time, here is [why](/docs/faq/#why-is-the-dependency-resolution-process-slow)).

To avoid this conflict resolution, it's best in this case to set the root project Python constraint to `^3.5.3`,
this will help the resolver find a valid solution faster.

However, this is an issue upstream (in `ccxt`) and should be fixed there.

### Multiple constraints dependencies

Sometimes, one of your dependency may have different version ranges depending
on the target Python versions.

Let's say you have a dependency on the package `foo` which is only compatible
with Python <3.0 up to version 1.9 and compatible with Python 3.4+ from version 2.0:
you can now declare it like so:

```toml
[tool.poetry.dependencies]
foo = [
    {version = "<=1.9", python = "^2.7"},
    {version = "^2.0", python = "^3.4"}
]
```

<aside class="note">
<p>The constraints <strong>must</strong> have different requirements (like <code>python</code>)
otherwise it will cause an error when resolving dependencies.</p>
</aside>

### PEP-517 compliant build backend

[PEP-517](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0517/) introduces a standard way
to define alternative build systems to build a Python project.

Poetry is now compliant with PEP-517 so if you use Poetry to manage your Python
project you should reference it in the `build-system` section of the `pyproject.toml`
file like so:

```toml
[build-system]
requires = ["poetry>=0.12"]
build-backend = "poetry.masonry.api"
```

<aside class="note">
<p>When using the <code>new</code> or <code>init</code> command this section will be automatically added.</p>
</aside>

### Lock file renamed from `pyproject.lock` to `poetry.lock`

This decision has been made to be much more explicit about where the lock file
is coming from and to not use a name that is not specific to Poetry.

Note that the migration will be done automatically and does not require human intervention.

All new projects will automatically use the new `poetry.lock`.

### Other new features

- New cache version system to automatically refresh the cache on major changes, so that the end user does not need to do it manually.
- Added a `--lock` option to `update` to only update the lock file without executing operations.
- Support for the `Project-URL` metadata when publishing.
- Support for optional scripts.
- Added a `--no-dev` option to `show`.

## Changes

### `install` command improvements and `develop` deprecation.

The `develop` command is now deprecated. You should now use the `install` command which, as of this release,
will install the current project in editable mode.

### Other changes

- Improved virtualenv detection and management.
- Wildcard `python` dependencies are now equivalent to `~2.7 || ^3.4`.
- Changed behavior of the resolver for conditional dependencies.
- Improved the `check` command.
- Empty passwords are now supported when publishing.

## Fixes

- Fixed a memory leak in the resolver.
- Fixed a recursion error on duplicate dependencies with only different extras.
- Fixed handling of extras.
- Fixed duplicate entries in both sdist and wheel.
- Fixed excluded files appearing in the `package_data` of the generated `setup.py`.
- Fixed transitive directory dependencies installation.
- Fixed file permissions for configuration and authentication files.
- Fixed an error in `cache:clear` for Python 2.7.
- Fixed publishing for the first time with a prerelease.
