---
layout: single
title:  "Poetry 0.8.0 is out"
date:   2018-04-13 09:12:35
categories: [releases]
tags: ['0.x']

aliases:
  - poetry-0-8-0-is-out.html
---

This version brings some improvements and a bunch of bugfixes.

## New Features

### Support for Python 2.7

After adding support for Python 3.4 and 3.5 in version 0.7.0, `poetry`
now supports Python 2.7.

The decision was made so that Python 2.7 projects can benefit from
the advantages that `poetry` provides.

### Fallback mechanism for missing dependencies

`poetry` uses the PyPI JSON API to retrieve package information.

However, some packages (like `boto3` for example) have missing dependency
information due to bad packaging/publishing which means that `poetry` won't
be able to properly resolve dependencies.

To workaround it, a fallback mechanism has been added to `poetry`
that will download packages distributions to check the dependencies.

While, in most cases, it will lead to a more exhaustive dependency resolution
it will also considerably slow down the process (up to 30 minutes in some extreme cases
like `boto3`).

If you do not want the fallback mechanism, you can deactivate it like so.

```bash
poetry config settings.pypi.fallback false
```

In this case you will need to specify the missing dependencies in you `pyproject.toml`
file.

Any case of missing dependencies should be reported to
the offical [repository](https://github.com/python-poetry/poetry/issues)
and on the repository of the package with missing dependencies.


### New `search` command

The `search` command has been added which allows you to search for packages
by name on PyPI.


### New `self:update` command

The `self:update` command has been added to ease updating poetry.

```bash
poetry self:update
```

If you want to install prerelease versions, you can use the `--preview` option.

```bash
poetry self:update --preview
```

And finally, if you want to install a spcific version you can pass it as an argument
to `self:update`.

```bash
poetry self:update 0.8.0
```

### Support for local files dependencies

You can now add local files (wheels or sdist) as dependencies in your
`pyproject.toml` file.

```toml
[dependencies]
demo = { file = "./distributions/demo-0.1.0-py2.py3-none-any.whl" }
```


## Changes

- Improved dependency resolution time by using cache control.


## Fixes

- Fixed `install_requires` and `extras` in generated sdist.
- Fixed dependency resolution crash with malformed dependencies.
- Fixed errors when `license` metadata is not set.
- Fixed missing information in lock file.
