---
layout: single
title: "Poetry 0.10.0 is out"
date: 2018-05-28 09:12:35
categories: [releases]
tags: ["0.x"]

aliases:
  - poetry-0-10-0-is-out.html
---

This version brings a brand new dependency resolver which is more consistent, reliable and faster.

## New Features

### Brand new dependency resolver

The dependency resolver has been rewritten from scratch to make it more resilient and reliable.

It solves conflicts in a faster and smarter way to be as exhaustive as possible.

It also comes with much clearer error messages when no valid solution can be found. Here are some examples:

```text
[SolverProblemError]
Because demo depends on django (2.0.1) which requires Python >=3.4,
version solving failed.
```

```text
[SolverProblemError]
Because masonite (1.6.7) depends on both cryptography (2.1.4) and cryptography (2.2.2),
 masonite is forbidden.
So, because demo depends on masonite (1.6.7), version solving failed.
```

### New `init` command

The `init` command has been added.

It helps you create a `pyproject.toml` file interactively by prompting you to provide basic information about your package.

```bash
poetry init
```

### New `develop` command

The `develop` command installs the current project in development/editable mode.

This is similar to `pip install -e .` when using pip.

### New `settings.virtualenvs.in-project` setting

The new `settings.virtualenvs.in-project` setting tells `poetry` to
create new project virtualenvs in the project's directory (`.venv` directory).

You can set it with the `config` command:

```bash
poetry config settings.virtualenvs.in-project true
```

If you no longer want this behavior, you can unset it:

```bash
poetry config settings.virtualenvs.in-project --unset
```

### Other new features

- Added the `--extras` and `--python` options to `debug:resolve` to help debug dependency resolution.
- Added a `--src` option to the `new` command to create an `src` layout.
- Added support for specifying the `platform` for dependencies.
- Added the `--python` option to the `add` command.
- Added the `--platform` option to the `add` command.

## Changes

### `publish` command

The `publish` command no longer builds the project by default.

The proper workflow now is to always use `build` before `publish`.

You can, however, use the `--build` option to retrieve the previous behavior.

### `show` command

The `show` command has been improved to make it easier to check if
packages are properly installed.

### `script` and `run` command

The `script` command is now deprecated. You can now use `run` instead.

### Other changes

- Improved support for private repositories.
- Expanded version constraints now keep the original version's precision.
- The lock file hash no longer uses the project's name and version.
- The `LICENSE` file, or similar, is now automatically added to the built packages.

## Fixes

- Fixed the dependency resolver selecting incompatible packages.
- Fixed override of dependency with dependency with extras in `dev-dependencies`.
