---
layout: single
title:  "Poetry 0.9.0 is out"
date:   2018-05-07 09:12:35
categories: [releases]
tags: ['0.x']
---

This version brings huge improvements to the dependency resolution speed.

## New Features

### Huge speed improvements in the dependency resolution process

In previous releases, the dependency resolution process could be extremely slow, especially
for some packages like `boto3`, due to the way the resolver works.

So, one of the focus of this release was to improve it so that the dependency resolution time
could be deemed acceptable. And it seems it paid off.

As an example, we will take `boto3` which was an extreme case: the dependency resolution time goes
from about **30 minutes** to about **11 seconds** on a cold cache!

This is a huge improvement and should help you manage your projects more efficiently.


### `add` command improvements.

The `add` command has been improved.

You can now use it to add `git` dependencies:

```bash
poetry add pendulum --git https://github.com/sdispater/pendulum.git
```

You can also add `path` (directories or files) dependencies:

```bash
poetry add my-package --path ../my-package/
poetry add my-package --path ../my-package/dist/my-package-0.1.0.tar.gz
poetry add my-package --path ../my-package/dist/my_package-0.1.0.whl
```

### Directory dependencies are now supported

You can now specify directory dependencies in your `pyproject.toml` file.

```toml
[tool.poetry.dependencies]
my-package = { path = "../my-package/" }
```

### Support for `src/` layout in projects

`poetry` now supports the `src/` layout in projects.

Note that the name of the package or module inside the `src/` directory
is still derived from the name of the project defined in the `pyproject.toml` file.

```text
my-package/
└── src/
    └── my_package/
        └── __init__.py
```

### Automatic detection of `.venv` virtualenvs

If you store you virtualenv inside your project in the form of a `.venv` directory,
`poetry` will now automatically detect it and use it.

### New `cache:clear` command

A new `cache:clear` command has been added, to help clear caches when something goes wrong.

This is useful in the rare cases where new distributions are added to a package after the cache
has been generated (see https://github.com/python-poetry/poetry/issues/51).

You can clear caches for a specific version:

```bash
poetry cache:clear pypy:pendulum:1.4.4
```

or you can clear all caches for a specific repository:

```bash
poetry cache:clear pypy --all
```


## Changes

- Dependency resolution caches now use sha256 hashes.
- Changed CLI error style.
- Improved debugging of dependency resolution.
- Poetry now attempts to find `pyproject.toml` not only in the directory it was
invoked in, but in all its parents up to the root. This allows to run Poetry
commands in project subdirectories.
- Made the email address for authors optional.


## Fixes

- Fixed handling of extras when resolving dependencies.
- Fixed `self:update` command for some installation.
- Fixed handling of extras when building projects.
- Fixed handling of wildcard dependencies wen packaging/publishing.
- Fixed an error when adding a new packages with prereleases in lock file.
- Fixed packages name normalization.
