---
layout: single
title: "Poetry 0.11.0 is out"
date: 2018-06-28 09:12:35
categories: [releases]
tags: ["0.x"]

aliases:
  - poetry-0-11-0-is-out.html
---

This version brings a new `shell` command, dependency resolver improvements and improves stability.

## New Features

### New `shell` command

The newly introduced `shell` command helps you in your development workflow
by placing you in the proper project environment. This way you can omit the `poetry run` command.

Note that this command is a usability improvement and, as such, is completely optional and
any current workflow using the `poetry run` command will still work and is still the recommended
way of interacting with a Poetry project.

<aside class="note">
<p>The <code>shell</code> command tries its best to detect your current shell but sometimes will stil fail.
In this case, you can use <code>poetry run &lt;your-shell&gt;</code> to get the same behavior.</p>
</aside>

### `packages` property

When you project does not follow the standard project structure supported by Poetry and
your packages lie somewhere else, you can use the `packages` property under the `tool.poetry` section.

```toml
[tool.poetry]
# ...
packages = [
    { include = "mypackage" },
    { include = "extra_package/**/*.py" },
]
```

If your package is stored inside a "source" directory, you must specify it:

```toml
[tool.poetry]
# ...
packages = [
    { include = "mypackage", from = "lib" },
]
```

<aside class="note">
<p>Using <code>packages</code> disables the package auto-detection feature meaning you have to <strong>explicitly</strong> specify the "default" package.</p>
</aside>

<aside class="note">
<p>Poetry is clever enough to detect Python subpackages.</p>
<p>So, you only have to specify the directory where you root package resides.</p>
</aside>

### `include` and `exclude` properties

You can explicitly specify to Poetry that a set of globs should be ignored or included for the purposes of packaging. The globs specified in the `exclude` field identify a set of files that are not included when a package is built.

```toml
[tool.poetry]
# ...
include = [ "CHANGELOG.md" ]
exclude = [ "my_package/excluded.py" ]
```

## Changes

### Dependency resolver improvements

#### Support for different version constraints for a same dependency

If a package the main project depends on has different version constraints for a same
package due to different system requirements (like the Python version), Poetry will
now properly resolve all branches caused by this.

Let's take an example: `docker`. `docker` depends on two versions of `pypiwin32`:

```text
pypiwin32 (==219); sys_platform == "win32" and python_version < "3.6"
pypiwin32 (==220); sys_platform == "win32" and python_version >= "3.6"
```

So, if the main project supports Python < 3.6 and >= 3.6, poetry needs to lock both.

The resolver is now clever enough to resolve for both branches created by the `docker` package,
which in turn makes it no longer raise an error about a conflict which does not exist.

#### Dependency installation order

When installing resolved dependencies, Poetry will now install the deepest dependencies
first. This solves issues when a package needs one of its dependency at installation time.

#### Better error messages

Error messages from the resolver are now better at explaining what happened.

For instance, if a conflict has been caused by incompatible Python versions the
error message will display the current Python version to provide more context:

```text
[SolverProblemError]
The current supported Python versions are ~2.7
Because my-package depends on django (2.0.6) which requires Python >=3.4, version solving f
ailed.
```

### Other changes

- `poetry` now always reads/writes the `pyproject.toml` file with the `utf-8` encoding.
- `config --list` now lists all available settings.
- `init` no longer adds `pytest` to development dependencies.

## Fixes

- Fixed handling of duplicate dependencies with different constraints.
- Fixed system requirements in lock file for sub dependencies.
- Fixed detection of new prereleases.
- Fixed unsafe packages being locked.
- Fixed versions detection in custom repositories.
- Fixed package finding with multiple custom repositories.
- Fixed handling of root incompatibilities.
- Fixed an error where packages from custom repositories would not be found.
- Fixed wildcard Python requirement being wrongly set in distributions metadata.
- Fixed installation of packages from a custom repository.
- Fixed `remove` command's case sensitivity. (Thanks to [@cauebs](https://github.com/cauebs))
- Fixed detection of `.egg-info` directory for non-poetry projects. (Thanks to [@gtors](https://github.com/gtors))
- Fixed only-wheel builds. (Thanks to [@gtors](https://github.com/gtors))
- Fixed key and array order in lock file to avoid having differences when relocking.
- Fixed errors when `git` could not be found.
